there are growing signs that Israel
could be on the brink of launching a
fullscale ground invasion of Gaza
overnight Israel carried out its biggest
air strikes to date in its war against
Hamas terrorists and troops also
conducted more ground raids the Army
says its troops are still in the field
communications in Gaza have been knocked
out
entirely Israel's military says this
footage shows overnight operations in
the Gaza Strip
they claimed their fighter jets hit 150
tunnels and other underground
infrastructure used by Hamas killing
several of the terror organizations
commanders some of whom they call Key
operatives in the October 7
Massacre meanwhile Israel Defense Forces
have been massing tanks infantry and
artillery outside the Gaza Strip after
several brief missions into the
territory the IDF says it's expanding
ground operations
in Gaza we are advancing in the stages
of the
war last night IDF forces entered the
area of the northern Gaza Strip and
widened activity on the
ground infantry engineering and
artillery units are taking part in this
stage accompanied by massive fire
expanding the operation serves all the
war's
aims almost half of Israelis pulled by
the newspaper iiv would rather delay the
ground offensive many worry that sending
in troops could endanger the more than
200 hostages still believe to be held by
Hamas but some supporters of the
offensive say they feel Israel has no
other
choice reading about the operations
somehow offers a bit of support and
strength I truly believe though that we
all continue to live in profound fear in
the face of the
murderers there's no sense of security
because we've been deeply
wounded this is a war for the Free World
a war for Liberal values for our home
for our children our babies our women
and our
grandparents it's not an easy
War we understand the pain on both sides
but we won't give up we will stay here
despite
everything the pain on both sides is
sure to keep increasing as long as the
fight drags on and there are no
indications of it ending
soon our correspondent Rebecca Ritter is
in is in stol in southern Israel close
to the border with Gaza Rebecca it
appears some Israeli ground forces are
still inside Gaza today what are
officials telling you
[Music]
well that's what we're hearing from
officials too Michael that the ground uh
offensive or all the targeted raids as
they're being called by the Israeli
military are still ongoing the one that
the the troops that went in last night
are still inside the Gaza Strip as far
as we're aware according to the latest
updates that we have uh now I also have
been hearing that the the they're trying
to work out now they're still trying to
make a decision about whether or not
they're going to continue uh forward and
and try and make this a larger ground
Invasion as we've all sort of been
expecting for the last few weeks um or
whether they're going to pull out and
keep doing these smaller raids sort of
on the periphery or just inside the
periphery line I should say now just
over my shoulder you can see uh Gaza you
can see the plumes of smoke that's the
bait hon neighborhood in the
northeastern part of Gaza and we've been
seeing and hearing uh the the missiles
and the artillery fire pounding that
City we can see the plumes of smoke uh
over the over Rising above the skyline
it's not a very clear picture at the
moment because of all the dust that
kicked up by those missiles and the dust
that comes from the buildings that are
destroyed but you can get a a bit of an
image there of what's been happening all
throughout the day we know that
yesterday and last night in particular
was the heaviest bombardment since uh
this ground since this um sorry since
the War Began 3 weeks
ago Rebecca uh as you mentioned that
ground offensive appears to be slowly
Gathering Pace Mass mobilization of
troops into Gaza hasn't happened yet as
you say but raids are uh how much
support is there among Israelis for an
escalation well you heard a little bit
in that report there that perhaps uh
support for a full ground invasion is
losing uh is losing or the full ground
invasion is actually losing support
among Israelis I think most Israelis
that you speak to are fairly United
doesn't really matter where they stand
on the political Spectrum but they're
pretty United in the goals that the
Israeli military and the government have
set which is to try and eradicate or
completely eliminate hamas's military
capabilities and there seems to be a
consensus behind that but how the next
steps and how that's you know to be to
be brought to fruition um is now I think
you know among the community among the
Israelis I should say uh knowing that
there's those 200 plus hostages on the
ground we know that the hostage families
in particular have been U you know
making some noise they sent a letter to
the government expressing their concerns
Their Fear the fact that they haven't
been consulted and that they know that
their loved ones are there and that
their loved ones are going to be
incredibly impacted also as well as of
course the the more than two men in Gaz
and still in the strip but these
families saying that they are lobbying
the government to try to prevent a
full-scale ground Invasion because
they're worried of of what that would
mean for their loved ones uh we know
that the defense minister has now agreed
to meet with the families uh I believe
later today and there might be some
discussion there about uh try to assuage
their fears but I think full support for
a for a complete ground invasion is
perhaps um starting to WAN slightly that
is Rebecca Ritter from stalt in southern
Israel many
thanks Aid organizations say the
communications blackout since Friday is
complicating their relief efforts the
World Health Organization says it's
impossible for ambulances to evacuate
the
injured
as War rages in Gaza paramedics are
facing enormous
challenges dozens of ambulances have
been damaged in the Gaza Strip many are
out of
service there's an acute need for more
medical supplies and surgical
equipment we no longer have any body
bags in the
ambulances and we're facing difficulties
in transporting decomposing
bodies there are tens maybe hundreds of
them in the houses that have been
targeted according to Rescue Services
hundreds of buildings have been
completely destroyed due to intense
bombardment Rescuers are sometimes
hampered in their efforts to find
trapped
victims we lack heavy machinery and rely
on private companies but even their
equipment despite daily maintenance
affected these frequent breakdowns
hinder our
work the humanitarian situation for more
than 2 million people is already
tired since Friday evening phone and
internet services have been cut
off leaving people even more
disconnected from the outside
world we should mention we currently
cannot contact our sources in Gaza
anymore but we got an update from the
BBC's correspondent in Gaza rushi Abu
ALU reporting from conun in southern
Gaza very chaotic scenes in the street I
have been driving through the city of
kanun this morning less people but more
Bic and people they don't they don't
know what to do in this circumstances
they can't establish communication with
their friends with their families even
the here in Naser Hospital in in kenun
the ambulance services are facing a very
difficult situation dealing with the
continuous Israeli air strikes around
kanun here I'd like to welcome hadil
kazaz she's the regional gender
coordinator for Oxfam International
based in rala in the Israeli occupied
West Bank uh halil we understand
Communications are down in Gaza we also
understand you may have family members
there when did you last speak to your
colleagues and your family in Gaza
uh we lost all connections with Gaza
yesterday at 6 PM uh yes I have all my
family everyone I have in the world is
lives in the Gaza St plus three 33 staff
of Oxfam International and many many
partners long-term Partners who we work
with for a long time we lost contact
with all of them we cannot reach
anyone I realized to some extent I'm
stating the obvious here but with
increased Israeli air strikes and a
Communications blackout it must be utter
chaos for example when it comes to
trying to get Emergency Care is there
any information at all trickling
out nothing uh since last night we have
zero information we don't know what
happened during the night we don't know
the needs the emerging needs H even
before that we had very little
information but very uh serious uh uh
information about the catastrophic
situation in the Gaz STP we uh in Oxfam
warned from starvation being used as a
wein of War because only 2% of the
gazans needs for food entered Gaza uh
people were ran out of electricity fuel
water medication anything even before
what happened last night which we still
don't know what happened last night uh
the total blackout also is very worrying
because for us it means that anything
can happen in imunity and uh basically
because uh it's like we feel that we are
back to the Dark Ages really to to that
point I'm so sorry to cut you off but
you're making really interesting points
there including the fact that people
cannot get the the uh the products that
they need your organization Oxfam is
among many International organizations
calling for ceasefire what exactly is
your
demand immediate ceasefire is very very
important for any humanitarian actors
and since we need the since we see the
huge need since we need we also see
what's happening in in terms of uh
civilians who are uh being uh subjected
to a very very difficult situations and
circumstances where they cannot uh
fulfill their basic needs there's the
fear of dying not only from bumping and
chilling but also from starvation and
thirst uh then ceasefire is just a a a
precondition for any humanitarian actor
uh we haven't seen this in all the
history of from interventions around the
world and we have been in many
humanitarian situations we didn't see a
place where for three weeks we couldn't
have access no one could secure access
even to assist the needs even to uh
support people with the basic
life-saving uh medications not only for
injured and for people who are in
critical conditions but also for
long-term patients for diabetic people
for cancer patients for anyone who would
need premature babies for the 5,500
women who are going to give birth this
month alone so we are really very very
worried about what's happening I'm more
worried now because of the blackout heal
I I hate cutting you off when you're
talking about something that's so
emotional but we we're literally out of
time I do want to ask you very shortly
the UN has alerted Gaza is on the brink
of a massive health hazard are we
already in the worst case scenario or
things could get even worse at this
point
uh well with the blackout things can get
much worse in in fact and uh that's why
we also demand for Return of the
connections not only the internet but
mobile and landline connections so we
can also know what's happening there yes
it things unfortunately can get worse
unforunately we're gonna have to end it
there that is hadil kazaz from Oxfam
International many thanks for your
time thank
you protest have erupted worldwide in
support of Palestinians with
demonstrations taking place in several
countries thousands of pro Palestinian
protesters marched to the heavily
guarded US Embassy in Indonesia's
Capital Jakarta to demand an end to the
fighting in the Pakistani city of
Karachi hundreds of protesters also
rallied to condemn Israel's attacks on
Gaza protesters carried banners and
signs with Pro Palestinian slogans in
New Zealand's Capital Wellington
thousands marched to Parliament House to
oppose the ongoing war and demanded a
ceasefire for humanitarian
[Applause]
Aid